>> Lucas Ruebbelke: Server communication.
If we go back to our app real quick,
just kind of observe where we are.
And this will kinda give us insight
to what we're going to accomplish in
the next module.
When I want to save this,
you can see we're just logging it out, so
we're not persisting it.
So the minute we refresh it,
nothing's happening,
and we're actually not updating anything.
So let's complete the loop, make it full
circle, circle of life, if you will.
And we'll do that via
server communication.
So we're going to use the HTTP module.
And we're gonna talk about
the methods that are available.
We'll talk about promises
versus observables, and
the header object,
as well as some error handling.
Now they just recently came out with
an HTTP client module in four three.
We're not going to talk about it here.
But if you understand how this works,
the API is almost identical.
They just added some additional
more advanced features.
But this, the HTTP module,
is gonna be supported for some time.
So this just came out with HTTP client,
but it's almost identical.
So you can kind of just flip from one to
the other, it's not gonna be too hard.
So HTTP module, quite simply it
simplifies the use of XML HTTP request or
JSONP.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: And conveniently,
the API for
the HTTP service matches RESTful verbs.
So if you understand REST,
then understanding how HTTP works,
the module or the service,
is going to be pretty straightforward.
And it returns an observable.
So we'll see what that means in a moment.
So first and foremost, you import the
module, that happens via the angular.cli.
And then it provides these methods.
So how many people here are fairly
comfortable working with REST?
Good, so
I think it's one of these things where,
once you've kind of wrapped your mind
around the convention, it just works.
No matter what server technology
you're on, or whatever,
it's just really easy to just know
it's the same thing every single time.
So you have request, which is kind
of a generic, any kind of a request.
But then on top of that we have get,
post, put, delete, patch and head.
Which I rarely every use.
But get, post, put and delete,
those are basically your CRUD
operations.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: And so
what we have here is,
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: The item
service and,
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: Let's see if
this will connect here, there we go.
So get, post,
put and delete.
Now I tried to find, if there is any
real advantage of using post over put,
and I think for
the most part they're pretty identical.
Somebody, if they want to sound off,
I'd totally love to hear about it.
But I think for the most part,
they're about the same.
So I use post for create.
And I just use put because it
seems to be more kind of in the,
I don't know,
like the spiritual animal of updating.
So it's like I'm putting something up
here, just go ahead and update it.
So I just use post for create, put for
update, and then obviously get and
delete are pretty self explanatory.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: What's
interesting about is one,
if you have some REST endpoints,
your service is going to look pretty
much like this almost all of the time.
More often than not, you're simply
going to update the endpoint,
maybe the parameters to
be more self-descriptive.
And these things are, I almost didn't so
REST is very conventional.
Therefore, your services that communicate
to the server generally are going to be
equally conventional.
This is, I think,
the one time that I've seen
inheritance happen that I
think somewhat made sense.
Is that I think actually Jeff Whelpley
from GetHuman, other Angular GDE.
They had a ton of REST end points.
And so he created a base class
that did all of this, and
then extended it with kind
of specific end points.
So you would just set the end point and
then your load create update delete
was just available via inheritance.
I think that may make sense.
Somebody did that,
probably would not offend me.